docs/writing/paper_editnotes.md, before:

Notes from 24 February 2025 review by Lizzie

Looking good! This is part of what took me longer to get this review back to you .... 

As it seems like we have a lot of the structure, I took longer on this to work on the writing. In general we need:
- fewer nominalizations (verbs made into nouns that could just be verbs), so say 'can digitize' instead of 'allow digitization'
- less passive voice (PV)! See edits throughout for this.
- simpler writing. For example, a lot of places we say stuff like: we did [fancy big words] to allow [nominalization] of ... and I think we could often just say 'this thing [explained simply] helps/aids/allows this other thing ...


Notation and small stuff:
- em dashes are the length of an 'm' and are --- with no white space in Latex
- I think you need more math notation around X, Y, Z etc. but up to you if you want to add ($$)
- spell out more acronyms
- add white space before units and I am fairly sure you need a space instead of a comma in big numbers (but check a few refs) since I think commas are not always used the same in numbers across countries. 
- use that sometimes when you use which; if there is no comma, then usually 'that' is best
- spell out numbers <10

Please delete my comments in the tex once you have dealt with them!

Once you have a new draft, please send it back to me. I suggest after that we may be ready to ask Mao, Christophe and Victor for a review of it.

Commit message:

New round of edits by EMW

docs/writing/paper_editnotes.md, after:

### Notes from 9 March 2025 by Lizzie

Some to do items ... 
- See edits in the tex file. 
- We should discuss authors again! So we can add authors and get this out to friendly review. 
- I have added besjournals.bst to the folder; I think if you replace plainnat with that it should give you MEE style. 
- If you ever have time, you could start on the cover letter. Check out examples here: https://github.com/temporalecologylab/labgitshadow/tree/master/resources/coverletters/regular but also CHECK what the journal will ask for.
- Speaking of that, check how they want numbers shown and check you're consistent throughout on how we show them (no commas I think, white space before units)
- In sci lit you generally shoudl not start sentences with 'and', use 'to get' and avoid it's (it is)
- Usually journals just want 'Figure 3' (or Figure 3a or such) or even just 'Fig. 3a' so remove the 'see' throughout

### Notes from 24 February 2025 review by Lizzie

Looking good! This is part of what took me longer to get this review back to you .... 

As it seems like we have a lot of the structure, I took longer on this to work on the writing. In general we need:
- fewer nominalizations (verbs made into nouns that could just be verbs), so say 'can digitize' instead of 'allow digitization'
- less passive voice (PV)! See edits throughout for this.
- simpler writing. For example, a lot of places we say stuff like: we did [fancy big words] to allow [nominalization] of ... and I think we could often just say 'this thing [explained simply] helps/aids/allows this other thing ...


Notation and small stuff:
- em dashes are the length of an 'm' and are --- with no white space in Latex
- I think you need more math notation around X, Y, Z etc. but up to you if you want to add ($$)
- spell out more acronyms
- add white space before units and I am fairly sure you need a space instead of a comma in big numbers (but check a few refs) since I think commas are not always used the same in numbers across countries. 
- use that sometimes when you use which; if there is no comma, then usually 'that' is best
- spell out numbers <10

Please delete my comments in the tex once you have dealt with them!

Once you have a new draft, please send it back to me. I suggest after that we may be ready to ask Mao, Christophe and Victor for a review of it.
